DRAFT - Initial declaration
Our aim is to articulate a clear idea of what a digital open book ought to look like.
Two key concepts: openness and accesibility.
Internet has to become the new environment for culture, specifically traditional culture. Traditional models, whether poetic creations or popular creations 
are characterized by being atemporal and by surviving throughout the ages. This is only possible thanks to the 
open character of their structures and thanks to their capacity to adapt themselves to the surroundings in which they 
are reproduced and continously re-created. Openness must not be confused with freedom in the creative process, since every 
individual, even while innovating, claims above all that he is a faithful transmitter of the cultural inheritance of which 
he feels himself to be the repository.
Each digital open book is not a closed fragment of discourse like the poems or stories of printed literature, but a virtual 
model which is realized continously and simultaneously in different places in the form of objects or individual 
versions that are always different. But people browsing the web, if they choose to do it, now have the opportunity to keep on 
altering the structure and content little by little. However, these people do not freely create “their” versions
on the basis of a narrative skeleton; rather they will reproduce, albeit with originality, the model they have browsed 
with all of its traditional details. The various realizations of a digital book will differ among themselves in the same 
way that changing realizations of a cooking recipe. 
It is the temporal and spatial difference between the manifestations of the model that will make possible an ever-increasing 
variety of results. In this way, by means of small innovative acts, either confirmed or corrected by successive authors, 
the narration keeps on adapting itself, both aesthetically and ethically, to the changing systems of values of the social 
groups that make use of openbooks to express their most deep-seated, local, and intimate culture. 
Thanks to the inherent variability of the openbooks transmitted on the Internet, they will preserve an eternal immediacy 
for their digital readers.
